# Battleship_Simulator
Simulator for the game of battleship

This project is a simulator for the game of battleship.  It is a one-player version of the game where a computer algorithm attempts to beat the game in as few moves as possible.  The game is won by sinking all of the ships which have been placed randomly on the game board.  This simulator makes it possible to run thousands of instances of one-player battleship games to generate statistics about the strength of the computer algorithm playing the game.  The purpose of this simulator is to test different strategies for playing the game of battleship by comparing the performance of different versions of the computer algorithm.

This project is written completely in Python and uses object-oriented programming.  I developed a base algorithm that plays the game intuitively.  The algorithm has two modes: at first it uses random attacks to locate an enemy ship. Then it uses a ship killing algorithm once a ship is found.  This ship killing algorithm takes into account the remaining ships on the board and the probability distribution for each remaining ship before every move it makes.  Once all found ships are sunk it returns to making random attacks.  The only way I am aware that this base algorithm can be improved is by using search patterns in the first mode of the algorithm rather than random attacks.  So a useful application for this simulator would be to test the performance of different search patterns.  I have also developed numerous tests, to test the algorithm's ability to play intuitively in common situations and also in edge cases.

I have also produced images of probability distributions that I generated using this simulator for the aircraft carrier which is 5 units in length.  These are the "PNG" files in the project folder.  The probability distribution represents the likely hood of finding the ship on any given square of the game board.  On an open board, randomly placed ships are less likely to be found in the corners and more likely to be found in the center of the board.  The probability distribution can actually be calculated.  As the number of simulations I run to approximate the distribution increases the closer it gets to the correct answer.
